Challenge:
---------- 
According to medical reports and statistics, skin diseases have millions of victims worldwide.
These diseases might affect the health and life of patients and increase the costs of healthcare services.
Delays in diagnosing such diseases make it difficult to overcome the consequences of these types of disease.
Usually, diagnosis is performed using dermoscopic images, where specialists utilize certain measures to produce the results.
This approach to diagnosis faces multiple disadvantages,
such as overlapping infectious and inflammatory skin diseases and high levels of visual diversity,
obstructing accurate diagnosis.

A key issue in healthcare is to discover a disease at its early stage and determine
its type to commence with proper treatment. Today, millions of people worldwide are
impacted by skin diseases, placing a burden on the health of the individual and the economy
of governments, particularly if not treated in its early stages. The American Cancer
Society reported that 7180 people died of melanoma (melanoma cancer) in 2021. At the
same time, estimates released in the 2022 annual report of the American Cancer Society
reported that the number of new cases in the skin disease group (melanoma) was estimated
to be approximately 99,780, with the death rate expected to include 7650 people.
In contrast, others diseases can cause significant impairment and deformation, due to
symptoms such as itching or pain. Moreover, damage to the skin caused by such diseases
can also harm an individual’s self-confidence and wellbeing. In general, most people
believe that some skin sicknesses do not cause significant problems. In contrast, most
individuals try to deal with these skin diseases using their own personal strategies. If
available medicines are not effective for a specific skin disease, they will simply aggravate
the disease further. Additionally, the individual might not even be aware of the seriousness
of their skin condition.

Approach:
---------
AI has become a promising method by which to develop methods for medical image analysis.
As a promising AI approach, deep learning networks have proven successful in image analysis,
with unique characteristics, and can automatically learn image representation.
Consequently, intelligent-solutions-based CAD systems are urgently required to help dermatologists
to accurately and quickly diagnose skin diseases, reducing the burden on healthcare systems
and the waiting times for medical dermoscopic screenings.
Deep learning, particularly convolutional neural networks (CNNs), has outperformed
other conventional techniques in human disease diagnostics. As a result, this paper
proposes a computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) system for detecting skin disease based on
multi-modality data-fusion techniques. This paper is oriented towards the diagnosis of
dermoscopic images in addition to analyzing metadata. The proposed CAD system uses
AI techniques to fuse and classify metadata and dermoscopic images for accurate disease
diagnosis. In this paper, multi-CNN models are used as a backbone for feature extraction
from dermoscopic images, which are classified using different machine learning algorithms
to obtain a reliable, accurate, and fast skin-disease diagnosis. Therefore, the proposed
CAD system relies on the reliable fusion of multiple extracted features to practically help
physicians diagnose skin diseases in real-time. The proposed model can result in more
accurate diagnoses in metadata and dermoscopic images.